The caste system came
to Nepal between 300-800 A.D.
Although it was officially
banned in 1963, -
it continues to define the
role of people in society.
In the weakest position are those
outside the system: the casteless.
They are worthless in the eyes of others,
which forces many women into prostitution.
Directed by: Timo Peltokangas
Produced by: Mikael Hautala
This all began in the winter of 2009
when I traveled in Southeast Asia,
filming people's lives.
I found myself in Nepal -
in the midst of breathtaking views, -
and an incredibly hospitable people.
There I encountered some of
the most difficult life circumstances -
which I had ever seen.
In Kathmandu I met residents
of a women's shelter -
who searched for joy and balance -
after others had driven them
to a dead end in their lives.
I also met children,
who have died by now, -
because they were born
into casteless families, -
into completely hopeless circumstances.
I had spent my childhood
in Central America.
And from there I knew that poverty
does not make a person miserable, -
any more than riches makes a person happy.
The root of the problem is not money, -
but mans inclination to oppress others.
I began to dream, that
I could make a difference -
in the lives of these oppressed people.
Alleviating the oppression of the cast
system felt like such a distant dream -
so I decided to be rational and
begin somewhere practical and small.
I returned to Finland, got married, -
started a business and
lived two years of my life.
As an online entrepreneur
I had the opportunity -
to support residents of the women's shelter
by selling their jewelry in Finland.
Now I only had to come
up with a way to bring -
the jewelry to Finland and find buyers.
[Dream Driven]
[The "Dream Driven" project.
First take. Tampere, Finland.]
It is recording.
[Day 1. 9431km to Nepal]
Here is the most important question for the trip:
[Day 1: 9431km to Nepal]
Should I wear these classic Ray-Bans, -
or these slightly more modern... Police?
In the end had pretty slim
resources starting out.
We were just normal young
people who started doing.
We did not even realize
how lost we were the whole time.
[The "Dream Driven" planning video. June 25th, 2012]
You mean higher?
- Hi!
Hi! My name is Juho, and my...
Hi! My name is Juho, and my dream is to
drive to Nepal by car for a good cause.
[Arman Alizad: Producer & TV personality]
When we first began to make "Kill Arman",
we were two boys with a dream to create documentary -
about martial arts and
Kungfu masters around the world.
Then when our idea went
through and production began, -
we had no idea what to do.
How the heck do we get into a Shaolin
temple and speak to a warrior monk?
I'll call him and say: "Hi, this is Arman,
can I come watch you kick about?"
If we had thought about everything,
and made detailed plans, -
then I don't know if we
would ever have left, -
because we would have been overwhelmed.
And then it might not have ever happened, -
because we would have started
thinking about all possible problems.
A skeptic will always conjure up scenarios.
[Riku Rantala: Producer & TV personality]
Driving to Nepal by car is no easy task.
There are many hurdles along
the way, and unstable places.
It is challenging from a traffic
stand point... and logistically.
I often think about how these enterprises
work out when one wants to do good.
It must be something that
has been thought through.
There must be a guarantee that the
project won't turn into a road to hell.
As we know, the road to hell
is paved with good intentions.
The project must be what is claimed,
doing good, and not get messed up.
Traditionally charity is thought
of as an emotional thing.
For me it has always
been a rational question.
The inequality and foundation that I
have in life is an extreme privilege -
which results in a rational responsibility
[Juho's first trip to Nepal 12.20.2009]
- to narrow the gap between people.
[The "Dream Driven" planning video.]
Hi! My friends...
My friends also had dreams
[The "Dream Driven" planning video.]
- and we decided to combine them all into one plan.
My name is Mikael Hautala, and I am going
on this trip as a driver and photographer -
from Helsinki to Kathmandu.
Before the trip, when telling others
about what we were doing, -
older people tried to scare us asking:
"What is the point?"
"You will die out there.
Something will happen.
Your tires will bust... bla bla blaah."
But when telling our age group,
everyone said:
"That's cool! I want to come along!"
Often the obstacle for people
to fulfill their dreams is that -
they let other people affect their
faith in the dream.
Many people told us that "Kill Arman"
will never been seen on TV.
One producer said that I should have
stayed in the clothing business -
and left producing to the producers.
But we just had a crazy passion to do it,
and that is probably what kept it alive.
The passion and love for the project
was greater than everything else.
Everyone is responsible
for their own dreams.
This is just the way it is, because no one
else will fulfill your dreams for you.
Here is our ride: a Volkswagen Transporter
It's the postal service's old van, -
which is why the steering wheel
is on the wrong side.
Two and a half liter turbo diesel. Before
leaving, it has been driven 250,000 km.
I thought that if in the
60's some missionary grannies -
have driven there alone in a Kleinbus, -
then why couldn't three
fit young men travel -
the same route today,
or at least the same distance?
What could be so difficult?
As Top Gear puts it: "How hard can it be?"
Now we are going to
a junkyard in Kangasala -
to see if we can find
some seats for the back.
Jackpot! - We found ourselves some seats.
One of our big problems is that we
take ourselves way too seriously.
[Saku Tuominen: Creative Director, Idealist Group]
I believe, that we should have a balance in life -
where self-irony and
self confidence are proportional, -
which means that we don't think too
highly or too lowly of ourselves.
When we first heard of the "Dream Driven"
project we wanted to boost it forward.
There are too few projects
like this in Finland.
The first time I heard about it,
I thought: "That is awesome!"
The passion and love for the
work has again been victorious -
against challenges, possible difficulties,
and whatever may come along the journey.
When attempting big projects,
there will always be challenges.
It radiated a great love for doing good.
For good values and right things.
It was amazing in my opinion.
I thought: "Yeah, how sweet!"
This has got to be the world's
sweetest crew. This is cool.
[Day 1. Tampere, Finland]
Now we started rolling from Tampere.
Bus station. Hello.
The police station on the left.
Everything is OK.
We should have everything.
I'm honestly quite nervous
about whether we have everything, -
because if we don't, what do we do?
I find it amazing, that we live in a time,
where everyone who sees this film, -
can do incredible things that
are globally interesting.
I think that is pretty sweet.
[Reporter]: "Three young men have
departed toward Nepal in a van.
The journey will take a few months -
and the goal is to bring back jewelry
made by residents of a women's shelter.
You are now on the road to Anjalankoski.
We have Juho Leppänen on the phone. Hello."
- Hello.
- Mikael Hautala is also with you -
and the plan is to spend the night at Anjalankoski, right?
- That is correct.
And then you will cross the border and
pick up the third companion Rico Pircklén.
- Yes.
- Hey, how do you feel?
It has now begun, the two month trip.
Yes it has begun,
and the excitement is quite intense.
I have no idea what is ahead
and yet I want to complete this -
and get to our destination,
and back as well.
Yes, lots of excitement.
But are you scared at all?
Because I would not quite go on a leisure
drive through some of those countries.
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, China, Pakistan...
Yes, in some sense it is scary,
there are many things that can go wrong.
Though in another sense
it is just normal driving and living, .
but in another it is still scary, -
not knowing the countries and
not having driven the route before.
Good, so you have to succeed in this if
I am planning to order jewelry in a few weeks.
Yes we must. And now
the pressure increases a bit.
Juho Leppänen thanks for this.
And a very good trip. Good luck!
Thank you, thank you.
Why does Rico take the train to Vyborg,
if we are traveling by car?
Simple. Our car is registered
for two people in Finland -
and there are three of us. So we couldn't
take Rico along or install the seats."
When Juho contacted me and
told me about this "Dream Driven" idea, -
I thought it was a good idea, of course.
Everything that has to do with
traveling and charity is good stuff.
My travel partners
were my close companions.
Rico was a groomsman in my wedding, -
and Mikael had become like a
brother to me in the past year.
We will now lock our steering wheel.
Okay! No one will steal it now.
Hi! We are in St. Petersburg. Here is
the courtyard of where we're spending the night.
The car is brand new? About 10 years old?
- Yeah!
Rico.
[Day 3. St.Petersburg Russia]
- And now you decide to head out?
How often have you driven a bigger car like this?
The last time was during
my military service.
Which was how long ago?
- 3 years.
Okay. When have you last
driven with right side steering?
Never before.
So you are driving for the first time in three
years, in a van with right side steering, -
and we are in the center of St. Petersburg.
- Yep.
Ummm, it started well.
Here we go.
Music for the first time on this trip.
Maybe we'll stick to our own.
Rico, what did we learn just now?
There seemed to be large speed bump.
Immediate reduction
of speed... a giant bang!
120 and I plowed right through.
I don't feel like speaking
to the camera right now...
But since we decided to film,
we are going do this filming thing.
The passing lanes are quite short here,
approximately 400-500 meters.
And I began passing a truck.
The passing lane ended,
but it continued... striped.
And I simply drove about 50 meters on it,
and there happened to be a police patrol.
The threat was to end up before a Russian
court for driving in the wrong direction.
The options were to either
wait for the decision -
of the Russian court at
the police station -
or continue without my license
and skip the court session, -
which would mean I would be a wanted
person in Russia during our return trip.
In panic I called Vadim
in St. Petersburg, -
who explained the purpose of our
trip to the police in Russian.
The police considered
the options for a while -
and in the end decided
to not file any papers, -
telling us to greet the
Dalai Lama and Bruce Lee.
Maybe I was just shocked -
and couldn't think very much,
hoping for the best.
At least it will be more interesting to
watch, but it certainly doesn't feel good.
Well, we got to continue, so on we go.
We'll learn from this, that's for sure.
It was cool when we started
doing this project -
and a few months before leaving
our friends got excited.
They helped us prepare the car,
and with sales and spreading the word etc.
Then the radios began
calling, such as Radio Nova.
The newspapers wrote about
us before heading out.
And when we started out,
our Facebook likes rose.
It felt like: "Yes, now we
have a good groove on."
We were excited and it was cool
when others were excited as well.
Once on the Russian side we started
receiving criticism on Facebook.
Things like: "Hey, you are funding
a leisure trip to Asia with charity money."
But every expense that we had came either
from our own pockets or our own hard work.
And everything that we sold,
such as advertising space etc -
went straight to Nepal
to further children's education.
Social media has come to stay.
It has its good and bad sides.
It can no longer be avoided or removed.
It's a good thing.
But then there is the completely unjustified
commenting behind anonymous aliases.
That is a bad side of social media, -
that often on the surface level those
opinions have the same value, -
even though in reality they're not.
Some are more justified than others.
I fully understand that
the guys received criticism.
Many people will ask if this is just some
trick by the guys to get themselves a trip.
Someone might want to go on a similar trip,
but has not achieved it.
There are many motives: jealousy, anger,
the fear of being different.
All these normal human feelings drive us
online to comment things.
Not only excitement, love and good
feelings, as we would wish of course.
The entire sprectrum can be seen.
3.5 hours now and 106 kilometers behind us.
- St. Petersburg Moscow
This highway.
- Yes. Three hours, 106 kilometers.
Today we drove from St.
Petersburg to Moscow.
700 kilometers and 14 hours in traffic.
Now I am worn out... get some sleep.
Moscow is back there, and Kazan
is 800 kilometers ahead.
We've been on the
road for an hour now.
I took my foot off
the gas 3.3 kilometers ago.
6 kilometers ago I took my foot
off the gas... and still going.
[Day 7. The Russia-Kazakhstan border. Far from home]
We're getting Fluffy ready for the night.
Here is the current situation,
so plenty to do.
The chemistry between us worked very well.
Most of the time went by
with one person driving, -
another reading the map,
and the third filming.
So there was no need for anything, there
were no factors that could create conflict.
So this is where we sleep. Where are we?
We're in Kazakhstan!
We are 50 meters from the Kazakhstan
border... at a gas station.
I get to come between you again, right?
You are the smallest.
- Mm-hmm. That's enough for now. Good night.
A Kazakh morning.
We just drove 10 kilometers straight.
Completely straight. I did not
need to touch the steering wheel.
Well maybe I did, but didn't need to.
The roads look really good now...
We'll see.
There Juho goes off to poop...
In the bushes.
A flock of sparrows?
- Still like a cable.
The fifth gas station
in this city that -
we've tried to find that either
takes euros or a card.
Get it?
- I got it exchanged.
Now I have 7000 local money and for that
reason I thought I'd bring you some breakfast.
These are some warm pastries.
Did you know you're a good man Juho?
- Yes, I knew that.
Driving over the endless
expanses of Kazakhstan -
gave me time to think about the project.
Driving proved to be hard work, -
as did writing down our experiences
and keeping up our video blog.
My own thoughts took me to
Nepal, and to the people -
that had gotten me moving
in the first place.
Soon Rico and Mikael would
see the beauty of Nepal, -
but also the cruelty of the cast system.
[Day 10. Balkhash lake, Kazakhstan, 4742km traveled]
To Finnish eyes the casteless are just poor people -
but in their own culture they are worth less than animals.
When shaking the hand of a casteless
person, they are completely stunned, -
because normally touching a member
of the casteless is considered unclean.
Thinking about the oppression for too long
would make one feel powerless and small.
It was better to focus on the mission,
since at least we were doing something, -
even if it did not change
the whole world at once.
The first camels of the trip!
I will run after them!
The first real mountain roads
of the trip are here.
Welcome to this Folke West journey
to the plateaus of Kyrgyzstan.
Today a giant turtle has gotten
stuck on the windshield.
So please be careful while
driving at these altitudes.
Now we are in Naryn, Kyrgyzstan
which is a town of about 40,000 people -
before going to China.
This is so far the most
nerve wracking night, -
because we are at a small gas station, -
we don't know if this place closes.
This country is significantly
poorer than Kazakhstan.
Yeah and this is a village
and people keep passing by.
This is not some gas station by a major road,
where no one walks by during the night.
So several things make this a bit nerve
wracking, but... that's it for now.
This night's in the Lord's hands as well.
No one will rob us... maybe.
The most important thing
is that we get rested.
We'll wake up at 05:30 to make
it to the border on time.
[Day 13. At-Bashi Plateau, Kyrgyzstan,
2011 meters above sea-level.]
I just saw the most beautiful scenery
I have seen in a long long time.
Whoa, it sends shivers up my spine
how the soul can rest in these views.
[Day 13. Torugart Pass, Kyrgyzstan
3670 meters above sea-level.]
Found the bag!
- Nothing important, just the passports.
There is a peak that rises
above 7900 meters.
Is that a lake?
Basically Pohjanmaa...
Yes, very basic Pohjanmaa.
[Day 14. Karakul-lake, China,
3900 meters above sea-level.]
Juho's travel tips:
[Chinese guide]
Don't buy... a scorpion inside a piece of amber.
Don't buy a scorpion inside of amber,
even though it looks unique, -
because when you buy it 30 more appear,
which look exactly the same...
And you don't get your money back.
And then you get quite annoyed.
Because?
- Because it...
How much did it cost?
- It cost a lot.
Plastic?
- Seems to be plastic...
We just arrived at the highest point
of this leg of the trip, 4100 meters.
We won't go any higher today.
After all these events
that we've had, -
half an hour later
everything went smoothly.
Now we're in China,
and I have faith that -
if this continues like this to the end,
we have nothing to worry about.
Finally the food came. We waited an hour.
- Longer!
We waited more than an hour!
- But we'll eat now... so see you.
You have now puked all over the bathroom,
the toilet seat, the sink...
Yes.
- Mikael's shoes and bed...
Your own bed.
- It came so freaking fast.
And there are pieces next to my bed.
Really? I tried looking for water there...
and it gets stuck in my beard... -
When I try to block it like this
so that it doesn't come out...
It just spread everywhere
with an incredible speed.
It was a little embarrassing
with the bathroom door...
I was pounding it to try to get in, -
and then I puke against it.
After everything is out...
I realize that it is a sliding door.
Now we left the hotel. The Chinese border
control is 5 minutes from here.
We were charged 10 yuan (1.28 Euros)
for Juho's puking in the night, -
for the mess and a towel that
had been destroyed during cleaning.
Quite cheap in the end.
When we began climbing,
it went just as Wikipedia predicted, -
Juho started getting altitude sickness.
It made us think a little.
It is a little alarming when something
dangerous might be happening.
Soon we will be at 4600 meters,
and I am in terrible shape because -
my stomach was completely
emptied yesterday -
and I haven't gotten
fluids to stay inside -
and the air is really thin.
But soon we will begin descending, so this
should be it. Keep moving forward.
[Day 15. Khunjerab Pass, China/Pakistan.
4713 meters above sea level.]
Our VW can handle everything.
I'm not always sure if I should wave,
when the guy has an AK-47 in his hands, -
but he waved back smiling,
so maybe this time it was a good idea.
Could this be the Pakistani border station?
I still feel quite terrible, but the reason
is no longer the lack of oxygen, -
so something else is wrong with me.
But that was the least of
our worries at the moment, -
because when we arrived at
the Pakistani customs area, -
we were told that
the Karakoram highway was closed.
Ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to this
Folke West tour of Pakistan.
Pakistan has some troubles at the moment, -
because the Karakoram highway has
been damaged for the past two years, -
because in 2010 there was
some water damage, -
resulting in 27 kilometers
of the road being cut off.
- And that segment needs to be crossed
by boat... This is news to me.
It means that first we must
drive an hour to Pasu...
- Where we spend the night.
And continue by a ferry...
- Which will take this car, and us...
- 27 kilometer over the lake, and from there
we can get back on the Karakoram highway.
- and the locals say the drive
from there is 20 hours.
At least this isn't a rope bridge.
The nauseous feeling has left now -
or it is no longer a problem,
but now I have a fever.
Zero energy.
And I'm also pretty homesick.
I miss my wife.
I thought I'd have too much
to think about during the trip, -
so that I wouldn't miss her.
Juho had a few moments
when he was really homesick, -
and it's hard when emotions overflow to
take hold of the situation rationally -
that we're now here and nothing can be
done. We have to go on and that's it.
A day forward after giving it some time -
then the mind wins and the emotions fade.
Then the goal comes back into view
and we continue on the journey.
Those moments always come,
especially during long travels.
Feelings come to the surface.
Culture shock for example.
Sometimes after the honeymoon phase -
a reality check comes:
"What's going on here? It's rough."
"It is polluted here and the people
are in a hellish situation."
"There are so many poor people.
Why don't the rich do anything?"
But good conversations always helped.
It might be a little bit of depression.
Sometimes one gets worn out during travels,
and one gets a bit tired.
Those things need to be
dealt with, with friends.
One can't make it alone, that is clear.
That's one thing I've learned.
How are you feeling?
Yesterday was terrible.
I withdrew to sleep earlier,
and then got really homesick.
I don't know...
Then I just cried myself to sleep.
Mikael came and prayed for me at
some point that I would get well, -
and when I woke up in the morning: nothing.
Food tasted good. Oh my goodness.
Can the boats be seen in the background?
Yes. Incredible, but true... With those
boats we need to cross 27 kilometers.
There are these long beams that
we will drive the car on, horizontally.
And then hope for the best.
A little nerve wracking. We have
quite a bit of valuable stuff with us.
This is the most ridiculous thing
I have ever seen. Completely crazy.
We got a deal. It will cost
170 euros to cross the lake.
Expensive, but better than nothing.
We'll see what happens.
The boat was completely
ridiculous. Just crazy.
In itself it was unthinkable that -
a large highway bridging two nations,
a world famous highways, -
can just disappear for a stretch
of 30 kilometers, and become a lake.
That in itself is quite strange.
If in Finland the Third
Ring Road became a lake...
We wouldn't use row boats
to tow cars across.
That shouldn't be possible.
I took the responsibility to load Fluffy.
As I crawled half a tire at a time, -
I could only think about
how bad this could end financially.
I felt the boat tilt forward,
and thought: "This is it."
"I'll deal with this debt
the entire next year."
Oh wow!
We're at the end of the ferry ride, and
now the only nervous bit is the offloading.
Supposedly last week a car
fell of a boat and that was it.
Stepping outside of our comfort zone.
It's a fashionable phrase, but it is true.
That is where the magic happens.
Where growth takes place.
Usually people consider it a risk to
go wander around in unknown areas -
where one hasn't been before,
doing something one hasn't done before.
But it is the only and best way
to do a new refreshing thing.
Just step on it!
The mountain has come onto the road,
and now two tractors are cleaning it up.
We'll see if this takes a moment,
day, or week for them to clear it.
Cleared!
362.
- 362!
Looks good. Looks good.
I hope things turn out well.
There was a bridge.
...not anymore.
We're in Gilgit.
Did you say 1,400, or?
Yes. 1,400 Rupees (12 Euros)
per night for three people -
and it looks pretty good. Cheapest so far.
Okay, lets get packing.
When we arrived in Gilgit, the local
police chief asked to speak with us.
The victory feeling after
the ferry crossing faded,
when we realized Pakistan was Pakistan.
So, we were just told that the road
to Islamabad is somehow dangerous.
Something happened yesterday
and now no one has gotten through.
We could not speak about
the "what if?"-question there.
We attempted to speak to the camera.
All three of us went in front of a mirror.
We never had a shot with the three
of us drivers at the same time.
We went in front of the mirror
to talk about our feelings, -
but it's a load of crap
when Finnish men try to -
speak about their feelings
as they're happening.
How did that conversation make you feel?
You are still laughing, but I bet -
even Juho will soon realize
how fucked up things are.
I wonder what we just discussed.
"No one bombs anyone here."
No one has bombed anything!
We don't know what has happened.
They were saying that
the road had been targeted.
The only thing I picked up was that
there had been a terrorist attack.
A terrorist attack that claimed lives.
It sounded like a bridge
was blown up or something.
The locals won't even
let us go to Islamabad... yet.
The feelings were primarily some
mix of survival and a state of fear.
Or more of a panic.
I primarily thought that
we need to get out of here -
before things really get life threatening.
As an extreme optimist
and positive person Juho -
seemed completely oblivious
to the situation.
That people are really
being killed around us.
And that we were stuck in the city.
It didn't break our chemistry -
but dealing with Juho
began feeling like work.
I cannot comprehend how someone can
be so relaxed, as if on vacation, -
when we're stuck in Gilgit
because of a terrorist attack.
I don't understand.
I don't know about death.
Thinking about it now...
I have never been so close to a real
possibility that I could have died -
as was the threat in Pakistan.
Should we risk driving
the last 650 kilometers, -
where there might be
terrorists on the road.
Is the risk worth it, because
we'd leave our wives alone.
I'm going to fly out of Gilgit... I'll take
the fastest route out of this country.
I didn't like the idea of coming
to Pakistan, and now I like it even less.
This is completely ridiculous.
Rico. Tomorrow we'll go to Islamabad
first thing in the morning.
Watch me go.
There weren't many options.
We'll continue onward.
We had to keep moving forward since
I didn't have a visa back to China.
[Day 17. Gilgit, Pakistan, 650km from the mountains]
Juho what is happening?
I'm cleaning the van.
[Day 17. Gilgit, Pakistan, 650km from the mountains]
Because we're getting two Norwegian stowaways.
Norwegian stowaways?
- Yes, they have them here in Northern Pakistan.
So we can leave tomorrow?
- Yes!
Oh wow.
- Only delayed by one day.
What does Rico think about this?
I feel safer with those
extra human shields.
If things get screwed up I might get away.
It was probably the biggest
fears of mine, -
- that I make it fine, but something
happens to one of the other drivers.
How could I live with it, if one of my
companions falls into a lake in Pakistan?
We left Gilgit in the morning,
because we could. Yay.
But when we turned the engine on
we noticed a leakage of yellow fluid.
Our power steering is busted.
It turned out that the oil had
leaked from the power steering...
We couldn't do anything
but let it bust along the way.
Because we simply had to
get out of this country.
You can hear our power steering
dying with a terrible squeaking.
We were driving on beautiful roads,
but we couldn't focus on the views -
because a few days ago
terrorists killed -
over 20 people on these roads,
including women and children.
We came on Karakoram Highway North.
We're headed on Karakoram Highway South.
And on that road 20 people
were killed the other day.
I'm quite scared.
[Day 17. Jaglot, Pakistan. 500km from the mountains]
- Louder? I'm pretty damn scared.
We don't know what's ahead, -
and have everything to lose.
Let us hope we get out alive from
this country. I'll never come back.
It's the first time I wish I had
a gun in the glove compartment.
When the other guy has a gun, -
it would be good to have something
to defend oneself with.
So we'll get extra protection in the car.
The next 10 kilometers is a dangerous area.
I had a man with
an assault rifle by my side.
The broken power steering
made steering difficult.
The 100 meter cliffs by the road
didn't alleviate the tension either.
At the previous police checkpoint we got
rid of the cop who sat on Mikael's seat.
But I don't know if this is a safer area -
because now we have a police car
behind us with three armed police.
When we realized the boxes
on the cars were caskets -
we began to count the kilometers, hoping
we'd get out of the mountains by nightfall.
It's quite crazy here in Pakistan.
From the right, left, front, back,
top and bottom... and who knows where.
Animals, children, cars, mopeds.
You name it.
Abbottabad!
We were unfazed by
the arrival to Abbottabad, -
where Osama Bin Laden was killed,
because we were out of the mountains.
The next day we could drive
all the way to India.
We would not return to Pakistan.
Welcome to India. India. India.
That counted!
- That was the second hit.
Who's driving?
- Who do you think?
[Day 21. Butwal, Nepal, over 9000 km driven]
We're in Nepal.
Ta-da-da-daaa!
Welcome to Nepal!
- La-la-la-la-laa.
Not much happened today but we had fun.
[Day 22. Shreenagar Village, Nepal]
We're walking to Shreenagar village.
Before continuing to Kathmandu
I showed Rico, Mikael, and our followers -
the school which we had raised money for.
We had to walk a good while
to Shreenagar village -
because society had driven the casteless
out from the bigger villages.
The village had changed
in the past three years.
The school was bigger
with twice the children.
It was nice to think that
the few thousand euros -
that we had raised in advertising,
could help the education of these children.
Bye bye!
Front page.
We got on the front page. Yesterday we had
a reporter with us at the village -
and now we're on the front page
in a local newspaper.
We're at the finish line.
There! 400 meters.
Na-na-na-na-na Batman!
What's happening? Where are we!?
- The finish line!
Rico, where are we?
- The sauna.
Misa had flown to Kathmandu, and he would
take Mikael's place for the return trip.
We had to figure out how to get Fluffy
and the jewelry back to Finland -
without driving through Pakistan.
We arrived at Princess Beads,
after an extremely long journey.
There is jewelry of all colors.
So many colors that a Finnish man's
brain goes like this...
So many colors and shapes etc, but you
ladies can find yourselves suitable ones.
Misa seems to be modeling with a few.
He is a little too excited
about this jewelry.
Just missing a few, and tomorrow we'll
get our order loaded into the van.
And then we'll head back
to Finland. Whoohoo!
Now we are going to
the Finnish consulate in Kathmandu.
There will be a press conference about us.
It almost got out of control in Kathmandu.
All of a sudden all of
Nepal was reporting about -
young men from Finland coming
to help the casteless.
The small creek started
growing into a river.
Helping the women of
shelter opened the doors -
to the larger dream of shaking oppression.
When we found out that
Nepal's largest telephone operator -
wanted to speak with us -
we couldn't wait to hear
what they had to say.
An incredible meeting with Ncell.
They will support this project
for many years to come.
[Mikael singing]
What's in the trunk?
I don't know.
- Look.
I'm expecting a flock of goats.
- Are those goat heads?
Hey! Jewelry. Lots of jewelry.
For the surprise of the day,
Rico got plane tickets to Finland.
Originally when planning the trip
we thought it would be 5 weeks.
That is how much time
I had allotted for the trip.
School had started for me in Finland
and I was worried what would happen.
How long would the trip back take?
I had to then weight the options.
We discussed with Juho if they
could make the trip back without me.
They could, so I decided
to fly back to Finland.
Bye bye.
This is beginning to get
quite rough for me.
I just got the feeling all of a sudden.
Mikael left, which was planned.
Rico left, which was a surprise.
I was homesick in Pakistan already.
To the point of tears.
This doesn't help the situation,
seeing others get to go home.
But I'm not in absolute agony here.
We'll get to Finland eventually, but
it just doesn't feel that great now.
We were stuck in Kathmandu
with the car and jewelry.
I had placed a security of 7500 euros to -
the Swedish Driver's Union
to obtain Fluffy's passport.
The security would be released,
once the car was back in Finland.
I had borrowed the money, so I would be
in a mess if we did not make it back.
We dared not go back to Pakistan.
Tibet in the North was closed off.
And we could not go around
the Himalayas in the East.
We finally found a shipping firm
in Mumbai, India -
that was willing to ship Fluffy to Iran.
We set off knowing that each kilometer
was a step closer to home.
It was a risk with just the two of us.
We began to doubt that we could make it.
We began asking if someone from Finland
wanted to come as a third driver.
Can they get to India or Nepal?
If so, how?
The plan was still the same.
To go through Mumbai in India.
That was the direction.
We had to go through India.
Today we got the car fixed.
We'll also get a third driver in Dubai.
Looks like we'll head out tomorrow.
[Day 34, Kathmandu, Nepal
2317 kilometers and 7 days to the ship.]
We're going to Finland.
Misa is behind the wheel
for the first time.
This is going great.
- Stop, police.
The sticker is on the passport.
Misa and I are officially out of Nepal.
The whole process, with the guys driving
and with me supposed to be there, -
it was a little disappointing that I
couldn't be there sharing those moments.
Behind me is Taj Mahal. It's an incredible
sight in the evening sun.
[Day 36. Agra, India. 1414 km and 5 days to the ship]
We left at dawn from Jaipur toward Udaipur.
I just drove 325 kilometers here in India
and I don't want to any more.
Luckily after tomorrow
we don't need to drive in India.
It's just so draining.
Anything can appear on the road.
Cows, dogs, pigs, camels, people, tractors.
From behind the bushes.
Something could really happen here
because the speeds go up to 100 km/h.
And an accident at 100 km/h
is quite a big thing.
I dreamed of the winning gold at
the Vancouver Olympics for a long time.
After the first round I
was within my goals.
I was the fastest and led the competition.
In the last turn of the second competition,
I made a simple mistake.
I almost fell. Got driven into another
lane, and dropped to fifth place.
Crossing the finish line
I felt like it wasn't real.
It felt unreal.
I wondered when I could retry.
This couldn't be it.
It was a weird feeling.
I hadn't experienced very big
disappointments in my career so far.
But this felt huge,
as if everything was crushed.
I'd wasted four years of hard work.
It really put me in a tough spot.
What gave me strength to over come it was -
realizing that sports isn't everything,
and that I had another chance.
I'll move on from here. This will make
me a stronger athlete and person.
As you may have noticed,
we were in a wreck.
Fluffy is in terrible shape.
I have no idea if it can be fixed.
We're in Udaipur and
Mumbai is 700 kilometers away.
Transportation is being arranged.
We'll travel on the back of a truck.
No need to drive in India anymore.
When the accident happened,
it made me think -
if somehow it could have been
prevented with me there.
Maybe if the drivers had been
switched every few hours.
We came to the police station,
and they kindly contacted someone -
who will arrange a truck and crane.
We'll load Fluffy on the truck -
and then ride in it to Mumbai.
The one driver will drive
20 hours straight.
I don't know if we'll be in another
accident while sitting in a wrecked car.
This is proof that things
could always be worse.
It wasn't a fun thought
to drive 14 hours to Mumbai -
but now we're sitting 20 hours on the back
of a truck, in our car. Not more fun.
Two hours behind us.
- Four hours now.
Sixth hour.
- Hour 20.
We're stuck in Mumbai traffic.
[Day 40. Mumbai, India. 64 km and 1 day to the ship]
The last time we ate was breakfast 28 hours ago.
It would be nice to be there already.
I miss my wife.
This is where we're staying in Mumbai.
It is nice to have kind people who
have arranged this place for us.
It's safe. We have AC
and everything we need.
Though we do have one big need...
When young men haven't
showered in 48 hours -
and have been in the same clothes.
I have never been this dirty
or smelled this terrible before.
In the worst case fixing
Fluffy might not be worth it.
It might not be financially tenable.
I'm not really sure.
Tomorrow will bring its solutions...
But if I could get some
warm food, bathe and sleep, -
and maybe contact home,
then I'd be happy.
Pizza!
I came to check what they've
accomplished with the van in a day.
When I finally got a hold of
the people at Volkswagen, -
then things began to move forward -
but we're still on
an extremely tight schedule.
Third day of repair. Let's see if
they got the part numbers for me.
The main problem with
fixing Fluffy was that -
the VW Transporter had never
been brought to India.
The closest parts were in Turkey.
We were in the largest
Volkswagen workshop, -
but the mechanics saw
the Transporter for the first time.
The blueprints and part numbers
had to be figured out from Germany.
Miraculously the frame was fine. We knew
that the motor and gearbox were fine.
This part must be changed on both sides.
Soon we'll get a list of the parts -
and we'll post them on Facebook in case
someone has some of them laying around.
It was an incredible hassle.
Two or three days and hundreds of phone calls.
Tens of people and car mechanics -
questions like: What is wrong? -
What parts need to be
bought and from where?
We were in a hurry because there was a
ship from Mumbai to Iran only once a week.
So a days delay could mean a week
longer stay in India for the boys.
We had already been on pause
with nothing moving forward.
We constantly lost followers.
If nothing happens in a week
people lose interest.
That was also a fear. We had to
get going and get the ball rolling.
An evening behind us.
Let's see what the boys have done.
They have accomplished quite a bit.
If we're lucky we'll catch tomorrow's ship.
Woke up to a Mumbai morning.
- Cockadoodledoo!
I came here in the morning
to see if things are ready -
and it looks pretty bad, so maybe we
won't get home a week early after all.
I had already hoped for so long
that we'd get home a week earlier.
We'll let the mechanics confirm it but it's
not looking like we'll get home early.
Thanks everyone who fought so hard for us
to be able to get on this week's ship.
It would have been important.
Seeing Juho there...
I wondered how he had endured.
He unrelentingly went through
each day and gave it his all -
despite feeling so bad.
Okay bye.
So... a part is missing on top of it all.
[Day 51. Mumbai, India.
4 days to the third ship]
Just let it all out.
[Day 54. Mumbai, India. 1 day to the third ship]
After three weeks of sickness, battles with customs, -
and three ships having passed,
things were close to ready.
Let's go!
We don't have time to stay
here and watch it get sealed, -
because we need to catch our flights.
I hope to see Fluffy again. And hopefully
it doesn't flip in the container.
When I heard that Juho was asking
around about getting another driver -
I immediately felt that I must go along.
The first day in Dubai. Today we need
to get Misa and myself an Iranian visa.
But most importantly we found
a famous sight: A Finnish Heikki.
Hi!
- Hi!
Hello.
- Hello.
We got to the port 5 hours ago -
and now we've gotten on
the ferry and had some food.
We must sleep this night on these benches.
In Iran we were stuck in a small port city,
before Fluffy was freed from the container.
First time turning Fluffy on since Mumbai.
[Day 71. Bandar Abbas, Iran. 7925 km to Finland]
How is it so quiet?
I remember it being a terrible screamer.
It has lights as well.
All our worries about Iran had dissipated
during the two weeks of waiting.
Iranians are the embodiment
of hospitality and friendliness.
We were brought pomegranates and
grapes from moving motorbikes.
Being guests, the toll roads
did not charge us.
And at the regulated gas
stations someone always -
shared from their filling right
with a smile on their face.
We would have enjoyed the country more,
if we hadn't been in a hurry home.
[Day 75. Göreme, Turkey. 4807km to Finland]
You probably know
the expression: breathtaking.
I literally couldn't breathe normally.
This was such an unbelievable sight.
I can't explain it. Maybe you can
see how much I'm enjoying this.
I hope you can.
When we finally crossed the
Bosporus strait and were in Europe, -
nothing could hold us back.
There would no longer be troubles with
customs, late ships, lost containers, -
ferries or terrorists causing a stir.
If the car broke down in the EU,
we would not be fined.
There was only free paved road ahead
and we would be in Finland.
[Day 79. Belgrade, Serbia. 3128 km to Finland]
Every meter took us closer to home.
We had shared stories
on blogs and Facebook -
from the hot air balloons in Turkey,
to the incredibly friendly people of Iran -
but the project had taken so long,
that people had lost interest.
We remained a medium sized phenomenon.
A few advertisers had still joined
in Dubai, but we knew this was it.
The project would not longer reach new
people, or raise more money to Nepal.
I hadn't seen my wife in 2.5 months.
I hadn't checked my email,
or cooked my own food.
I was a tired traveler. Driving north,
autumn come as if speeded up.
We organized a final party for the project,
because we felt it was time.
It was great to see so many
interested people in one place, -
but for those involved
the night was a relief.
We could return to our
normal day to day lives.
We had given our all, and this was it.
Or so we had thought!
I was invited to speak
about the project -
to high schools and
universities around Finland.
Inspired by our story, some went on
to dream about charity work.
And some even completed their own projects.
We realized, that the more people hear
our story, the more would go out and dream.
We went to crowd fund a film,
and the public responded positively.
When you follow your dreams,
surprising things happen.
Using their profit the Princess Home
shelter has built a children's home.
The Store of Hope web store got a great
businesswoman to look after it.
Store of Hope now employs more
people in third world countries -
having expanded in its first year
with product lines in Nepal and Kenya.
The most surprising turn in
our dream was the Nepalese -
participation in developing the
villages for the casteless.
We couldn't even have
dreamed of anything like it.
The Nepalese government built walls and a
well for a school, and employed a teacher.
A local rich land owner
gave the village the land -
on which a school had
previously been unlawfully.
The biggest thing was
the partnership with Ncell, -
which resulted in the building
of two complete school centers -
with toilets, yards, and walls.
These were such great things,
that we had to see them for ourselves.
[Shreenagar Village, Nepal. February 5th, 2014]
We just arrived with Mikael -
and we've tried to speak
about technical things -
so that our emotions don't well up.
Luckily we have technical
things to talk about.
It makes a Finnish man's life
significantly easier.
The kids have uniforms...
And a school I guess.
They're wondering why I'm crying,
when this should be a positive thing.
Too many emotions to recognize.
Two years ago I could never have believed
what this project would achieve.
Walking here and
seeing the school.
I got to touch the first brick.
I thought about how much work this
has been carrying all this here.
And we've been a part of it.
That this school is here.
Right here in this casteless village.
Nowhere else, but here.
There are now 125 students
who can go to school.
Four teachers. Here are three classrooms,
and there are two in the old school.
I don't think anyone close by has as beautiful
of a school as the casteless do here.
Namaste.
It's crazy how just a few balls
can stir up such a commotion.
Five balls. The whole village is here
and balls are flying everywhere.
Look a dog.
"I saw you in a dream."
"As you ran toward the plateau."
"You carried the fear in secret."
"I remained standing."
"I crossed the border."
"And hoped that maybe -"
"I could forget the pain."
"I fell asleep with open eyes."
"If I gave my hand, would you hold it?"
"If I gave you time,
would you trust me to stay?"
"If I looked in your eyes,
- and touched you,
- would you believe that I loved you?"
"As I lay awake, I see your eyes."
"A look that slowly fades
into the darkest night."
"I will return."
"I'll go even though I'm afraid."
"Through the deserts, I will return."
"If I gave my hand, would you hold it?"
"If I gave you time,
would you trust me to stay?"
"If I looked in your eyes,
[Shreenagar village, The old school]
- and touched you,
- would you believe that I loved you?"
"If I gave my hand, would you hold it?"
"If I gave you time,
would you trust me to stay?"
"If I looked in your eyes,
- and touched you,
- would you believe that I loved you?"
"Would you believe that I loved you?"
Resulting from this project, two new
school buildings were built in Nepal, -
and buildings for three other
schools were completed.
Much to the surprise of the
boys, this crowd funded movie -
made it into theaters and
was shown around Finland.
The proceeds enabled the building
of another school in Nepal -
and the provision of health check-ups
and medicine for 4500 children.
When a dream is born
I feel that something -
inside me is unconsciously above all else.
It's something that keeps me awake
and drives me forward.
A dream is something
one is ready to work for.
Many people confuse dreams and wishes.
The difference is simple.
A wish is something that
one is not ready to work for, -
but a dream is something one
is prepared to work for.
A dream is what you think, your goals, -
what you want to happen in the future.
It is something that I have no
peace about until it is completed.
My biggest dream was
to create "Kill Arman" -
a documentary about martial arts.
It was something that bothered
me for five years.
For me it is constantly
in my head, -
and that is why I'm encouraged
to take steps toward it.
How does a dream differ from a wish?
I don't know... is there a difference?
I like the idea that one can see
life as full of possibilities -
to see life filled with ideas.
That is what this is all about.
Subtitles by: Matias von Bell